---
layout: posts
title:  "Pomodoro"
date:   2024-08-16 19:27:22 +0000
categories: 
  - work
tagline: "Productivity Timer"
tags:
  - Personal
description: Productivity Timer
highlight_home: true
header:
 overlay_image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1524678714210-9917a6c619c2?q=80&w=2069&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
 teaser: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1707581786096-2f89a6b9a63d?q=80&w=2070&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
 caption: 
---

I did this project because of how much the Pomodoro technique has helped me improve my focus and productivity.


[Github repository](https://github.com/Meronats/Pomodoro)

## ⏰ Pomodoro Timer

Welcome to the Pomodoro Timer – boosting productivity and managing your time effectively! 🎉

### 📖 Overview
The Pomodoro Timer is a time management tool that uses the Pomodoro Technique to break work into intervals, typically 25 minutes in length, separated by short breaks. This technique helps improve focus, productivity, and mental clarity. My Pomodoro Timer is designed with a user-friendly interface, customizable settings, and a touch of fun! 🌸

### 🌟 Features
- **Work and Break Intervals**: Automatically switch between work (25 minutes) and break (5 minutes) intervals.
- **Customizable Durations**: Set your preferred work and break durations to fit your workflow.
- **Separate Break Button**: Start a break manually whenever you need it.
- **Circular Timer**: Visual representation of the remaining time with a dynamic circular timer.
- **Audio Alerts**: Get notified with sounds at the start and end of each interval.
- **Statistics and History**: Coming soon! Track your productivity over time.

### 📝 Usage
- **Start Work**: Click the Start Work button to begin your 25-minute work session.
- **Pause**: Click the Pause button to pause the timer.
- **Reset**: Click the Reset button to reset the timer to the initial state.
- **Start Break**: Click the Start Break button to manually start a 5-minute break.
- **Custom Settings**: Use the settings panel to set custom work and break durations. Click Save Settings to apply changes.

### 🛠️ Technologies Used
- **HTML5**: For the basic structure and layout.
- **CSS3**: For styling and animations.
- **JavaScript**: For the functionality of the timer.
- **Canvas API**: For the circular timer visualization.
