---
layout: posts
title:  "Interactive Candle"
date:   2023-11-05 19:27:22 +0000
categories: 
  - work
tagline: ""
tags:
  - Personal
description: Interactive Birthday Candle Web App
highlight_home: true
header:
 overlay_image: https://htmlcolorcodes.com/assets/images/colors/light-brown-color-solid-background-1920x1080.png
 teaser: https://images.vexels.com/media/users/3/302833/isolated/preview/e628fb4b2607a7c00e6d98fec2725ae1-cute-birthday-cake-cartoon-character.png
 caption: Web APP
---
>HTML, CSS, JavaScript

[Github repository](https://github.com/Meronats/Candle)



## Project Overview
This web application brings joy and interactivity to virtual celebrations with a fun, unique feature — a birthday candle that users can blow out using their microphone. With a blend of modern web technologies, this app offers an immersive experience that mimics the cherished tradition of blowing out a birthday candle.

## Features
Blowable Birthday Candle: Utilizes the Web Audio API to process real-time audio input from the user's microphone to detect "blowing" and extinguish the candle on the screen.
Raining Hearts Animation: Upon successfully blowing out the candle, the user is greeted with a delightful visual effect of pink hearts raining down the screen, enhancing the festive atmosphere.
Customizable Text Message: Displays a customizable "Happy Birthday" message that can be tailored to the birthday person's name or any celebratory note.
Responsive Design: Crafted to provide a seamless experience across various devices and screen sizes, ensuring everyone can join the celebration.

## Technology Stack
HTML5
CSS3 (with keyframe animations for effects)
JavaScript (for audio processing and DOM manipulation)

## How It Works
The app prompts users to allow access to their microphone.
Once access is granted, it listens for a "blowing" sound.
When a "blow" is detected, a JavaScript function is triggered to switch the on-screen candle image from lit to extinguished.
This action also initiates the raining hearts animation, symbolizing the celebration of a wish made.
The app then presents a customizable, styled "Happy Birthday" message.

## Personal Development
This project was an excellent opportunity to practice and enhance my CSS, HTML, and design skills. Through the development process, I learned responsive design principles, ensuring that the app provides a seamless experience on various devices. I also explored the creative possibilities of CSS3 animations, visual effects in web applications. The integration of the Web Audio API for real-time audio processing challenged my JavaScript skills, particularly in handling media inputs and event-driven programming.